Allegory 
– The device of using character and/or story elements symbolically to represent an abstraction in addition to the literal meaning. In some allegories, for example, an author may intend the characters to personify an abstraction like hope or freedom. The allegorical meaning usually deals with moral truth or a generalization about human existence.

EX.: Animal Farm by George Orwell
Alliteration
The repetition of sounds, especially initial consonants or more neighboring words (as in “she sells sea shells). Although the term is not used frequently in the multiple-choice section, you can look for alliteration in any essay passage. The repetition can reinforce meaning, unify ideas, supply a musical sound, and/or echo the sense of the passage.

EX.: "The soul selects her own society." - Emily Dickinson
Allusion
A direct or indirect reference to something which is presumably commonly known, such as an event, book, myth, place, or work of art. Allusions can be historical, literary, religious, topical, or mythical. There are many more possibilities, and a work may simultaneously use multiple layers of allusion.

EX.: “Plan ahead: it wasn’t raining when Noah built the ark” - Richard Cushing
Analogy
A similarity or comparison between two different things or the relationship between them. An analogy can explain something unfamiliar by associating it with or pointing out its similarity to something more familiar. Analogies can also make writing more vivid, imaginative, or intellectually engaging.

EX.: “He that voluntarily continues ignorance is guilty of all the crimes which ignorance produces, as to him that should extinguish the tapers of a light house might justly be imputed the calamities of ship wrecks.” - Samuel Johnson
Anecdote 
A short, simple narrative of an incident; it is often used for humorous effect or to make a point. 
Connotation
The nonliteral, associative meaning of a word; the implied, suggested meaning. Connotations may involve ideas, emotions, or attitudes.
Denotation
The strict, literal, dictionary definition of a word, devoid of any emotion attitude, or color; the minimal, strict definition of a word as found in a dictionary, disregarding any historical or emotional connotation.
Diction
Related to style, diction refers to the writer’s word choices, especially with regard to their correctness, clearness, or effectiveness.   For the AP exam, you should be able to describe an author’s diction (for example, formal or informal, ornate or plain) and understand the ways in which diction can complement the author’s purpose. Diction, combined with syntax, figurative language, literary devices, etc., creates an author’s style.
Extended metaphor
A metaphor developed at great length, occurring frequently in or throughout the work.

EX.: "One day [Mr. Bixby] turned on me suddenly with this settler—
“What is the shape of Walnut Bend?”
"He might as well have asked me my grandmother's opinion of protoplasm. I reflected respectfully, and then said I didn't know it had any particular shape. My gunpowdery chief went off with a bang, of course, and then went on loading and firing until he was out of adjectives.
"I had learned long ago that he only carried just so many rounds of ammunition, and was sure to subside into a very placable and even remorseful old smooth-bore as soon as they were all gone."

Imagery 
The sensory details or figurative language used to describe, arouse emotion, or represent abstractions. On a physical level, imagery uses terms related to the five senses; we refer to visual, auditory, tactile, gustatory, or olfactory imagery. On a broader and deeper level, however, one image can represent more than one thing. For example, a rose may present visual imagery while also representing the color in a woman’s cheeks and/or symbolizing some degree of perfection (It is the highest flower on the Great Chain of Being). An author may use complex imagery while simultaneously employing other figures of speech, especially metaphor and simile. In addition, this term can apply to the total of all the images in a work. ON the AP exam, pay attention to how an author creates imagery and to the effect of this imagery.
Irony/ironic 
The contrast between what is stated explicitly and what is really meant. The difference between what appears to be and what actually is true. In general, there are three major types of irony used in language; (1) In a verbal irony, the words literally state the opposite of the writer’s (or speaker’s) true meaning. (2) In situational irony, events turn out the opposite of what was expected. What the characters and the readers think ought to happen. (3) In dramatic irony, facts or events are unknown to a character in a play or piece of fiction, but know to the reader, audience, or other characters in the work. Irony is used for many reasons, but frequently, it’s used to create poignancy or humor.
Metaphor 
A figure of speech using implied comparison of seemingly unlike things or the substitution of one for the other, suggesting some similarity. Metaphorical language makes writing more vivid, imaginative, thought provoking, and meaningful. A simile is a similar figure of speech that compares two unlike objects, in which the two parts are connected with such terms such as like or as.
Mood (atmosphere) 
The prevailing atmosphere or emotional aura of a work. Setting, tone, events, and language affect the mood. 
Oxymoron
A figure of speech composed of contradictory words or phrases, such as “wise fool,” bitter-sweet, “pretty ugly,” “jumbo shrimp,” “cold fire”—and, as many humorists have pointed out, “military intelligence.” This term does not usually appear in the multiple-choice questions, but there is a chance that you might find it in an essay. Take note of the effect that the author achieves with this term.
Personification 
A figure of speech in which the author presents or describes concepts, animals, or inanimate objects by endowing them with human attributes or emotions. Personification is used to make these abstractions, animal, or objects appear more vivid to the reader.
Point of view
In literature, the perspective from which a story is told. There are two general divisions of point of view, and many subdivisions within those. (1) the first person narrator tells the story with the first person pronoun, “I,” and is a character in the story. This narrator can be the protagonist, a participant (character in a secondary role), or an observer (a character who merely watches the action). (2) the third person narrator relates the events with the third person pronouns, “he,” “she,” and “it.” There are two main subdivisions to be aware of: omniscient and limited omniscient. In the “third person omniscient” point of view, the narrator, with godlike knowledge., present the thoughts and actions of any or all characters. This all-knowing narrator can reveal what each character feels and thinks at any given moment. The “third person limited omniscient” point of view, as its name implies, presents the feelings and thoughts of only one character, presenting only the actions of all remaining characters. This definition applies in questions in the multiple-choice section. However on the essay portion of the exam, the “point of view” carries an additional meaning. When you are asked to analyze the author’s point of view, the appropriate point for you to address is the author’s attitude.
Pun
A play on words.  A pun either plays on multiple meanings of a word or replaces the word with another that is similar in sound but very different in meaning.
